# Here you can found two papers: 
- *Distance functions to cluster financial timeseries*: This paper describes conventional distances (Euclidean, Manhattan, Minkowski, etc.) with its efficacy with regard to clustering financial time series 
- *Novel distance function to cluster financial data*: This paper describes the novel “shapelets” approach by Eamonn Keogh combined with image recognition techniques of Anurag Mittal applied to clustering financial time series


# Abstract
Financial data, as time series of stock prices and similar, have permanently been assessed as very noisy, disorganized, and non-stationary and, therefore tend to be unpredictable by most conservative models in the light of which financial time series do not contain any patterns to follow. Moreover, most modern researches attempting to reveal some patterns found only weak evidences of patterns existence. Hence, the question whether financial data contain any significant regularities is not resolved yet by using traditional and modern methods which provokes a need in more advanced search instruments. In recent times, advanced techniques of time series pattern recognition and image classification become more and more popular among scientists which can also be adapted for research of financial time series. These modern techniques include “shapelets” recognition, Dynamic Programming-based partial matching algorithms, up-to-date similarity-invariant pictures’ descriptors, which allow to compare objects invariant to rotation, translation and scale, and fast k-medoids clustering. By reasonably applying them it is possible to test whether these tools could help improve regularities search in financial time series.
In this thesis the main hypothesis tested is whether the model would produce good goodness of fit results comparing different parameters, such as a number of iterations, clusters, objects and different distance functions. The model used is an automated pattern recognition algorithm which employs up-to-date clustering techniques. These techniques encompass machine learning vehicles which allow the algorithm to identify patterns and deliver them into classes without human interruption. The dataset taken encompasses thirty stocks from Dow Jones Industrial Average index (DJIA). To understand how good clustering is performed the goodness of fit approach of Tibshirani & Walther is used.
